# Creaming Method

The Creaming method of baking is easily the most common for the average from-scratch baker, if you've ever made cookies then you've used this method.
The basis of the creaming method is "creaming", or mixing til smooth, butter or other solid fat with sugar. Begin by placing the butter in the bowl and mixing slightly, just so it's not still shaped like a stick. Add the sugar and mix at about a medium speed (say 4 on a kitchen-aid), at low speeds it just takes too long and high speeds can result in uneven mixing. The granules of sugar punch holes into the butter, which then hold air, which lighten the mix both in texture, weight, and color. The amount of time this takes depends on the volumes of butter and sugar used, generally the more white sugar used the quicker this goes. Once the color has lightened it's time to add the eggs.
The heavyness of the egg is a threat to the delicate airy structure we've just made, so adding them should be taken with care. Add eggs one at a time, waiting til the prior egg has fully mixed before adding the next egg. This sentance is in every cookbook but for a good reason, adding more than one egg at a time will add too much moisture and destroy all the pockets of air that you've made in the earlier step. The one change I would make here is to use *cold* eggs, as in fresh from the fridge. The temperature will help the butter keep its structure. After the eggs are added, mix for an extra 30 seconds or so, no matter how much care is taken, adding the eggs will destroy some of the airy structure, and the extra mixing will account for that. Some recipes will have you add extra now, like extract or a splash of milk. for small volumes, like a teaspoon of extract, add it with the first egg for the best distribution. Otherwise add it after the first addition of flour.
Speaking of, now that the structure is is well composed, adding flour isn't much of a concern, I like to put my mixer on low and add flour more-or-less continuously in small amounts, stopping to scrape the sides of the bowl halfway.